Are right.
So let's do some actual chain rule problems.
So my idea with these exercises is to get you started on the chain rule and give you some practice.
So we're going to be giving you easy on to the beginning and then they get progressively harder.
But again at the beginning what I want you to do is to be able to apply our mnemonic UTX and be able
to solve easy problems.
All right.
So we have find f prime of x f f of x equals x squared minus 3 to the 20th power.
Go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So we have this function x squared minus three and we need to find its derivative.
So how do we go about that.
Well it turns out that here we have a composition of functions right.
We're plugging in this x squared minus three into this other function that takes it to the 20th power.
So for that reason we're going to need to use the chain rule.
So the mnemonic for the chain rule is ugly.
Daily X-Box that's UTX.
So for the first step we're going to have the you and for this tab remember all we do is we say you
equals whatever the enter function is.
In this case it's X squared minus three.
That's it for that step.
Second step is derivatives.
And I'll put it here we're doing you the x ugly daily x box.
All right.
Second step is derivatives.
So remember that we have DUI cross dx and then we have you over here and you over here as well.
So overall like we mentioned all we're doing is we're multiplying this derivative times this derivative
So it's derivative of y in terms of you.
So first we have why in terms of view and we get the derivative of that.
So like I said before and a lot of people get confused by this but it's actually very easy.
We want to set this Y to the original function in terms of you.
So we do not want to have any access.
Right.
So the way we do that is we already said in step one that you is equal to x squared minus 3 to the inner
function.
Right.
So this inner function is already you so to rewrite this whole thing using you instead of X. We just
say you to the 20th.
Right you till the 20th is the same as saying X squared minus 3 to the 20th but X squared minus three
has been replaced by you which like I said we already did on our first step.
All right.
So it's not only you to the 20 we're getting the derivative of you to the 20.
This is very important.
If you just say you to the 20 and you do not get the derivative your answer will not be correct.
Remember this is a multiplication of two derivatives putting y in terms of you as Step 1 and then get
the derivative as the second step.
All right.
So we have that times.
The other derivative which is DDX.
So you in terms of x we can refer back to Step 1 for this one you equals x squared minus 3.
It's already in terms of x.
So we just say derivative of x squared minus 3
and again for this second part.
Do you over ADX we're just putting the inner function here.
If you haven't noticed that yet.
Because you is what we're finding the derivative for and you is the inner function and it is already
in terms of x y because that's how we defined it in step 1.
All right.
So we have two derivatives derivative of the 20th time's derivative of x squared minus three.
Let's do that over here.
So what is a derivative of you to the 20th.
Remember that what we do here is we treat you as if it were an X.
So if you had x to the 20th and you want to find the derivative of that what would you do.
It would just do the power roll.
Right.
So that's exactly what we'll do.
But instead of using the X we're going to use the you so this 20 is a dictator.
So it comes down multiplying we keep the you and we substitute by a less powerful leader.
So that's the 19th that is a first derivative then for a second derivative.
This is a difference.
So we do derivative of the first mynahs derivative of the second.
So here derivative of x squared.
This is just power rule.
So we bring our dictator down by a less powerful leader which is one so we don't market and minus the
derivative of three while three is a constant.
So its derivative is zero.
So we did not market.
So at the end of the day what we have is 20 years of the 19th times to X..
So let's go out and multiply 20 times to x.
That's 40 x times you to the 19th.
All right.
This is it.
Now for our last step which is the X part of the process we just put our answer back in terms of x.
So we have this answer.
We do not want any use.
So what we do is we change as you buy the equivalence which is in X..
So again refer back to Step 1.
We already said that you equals the inner function or in other words you equals x squared minus 3.
So the final derivative is going to be equal to
40 x times instead of you to the 19th.
We'll have x squared minus 3 which is the same as you just an X terms
to the 19th.
And this is our final answer.
So how did it go.
Did you get the same results maybe you didn't get to the last part.
Maybe you got confused in step 2.
Again the chain rule is difficult.
All right.
So if you didn't get it the first time don't worry we'll do a couple of problems to get you used to
it.
But remember the key is your mnemonic you the x.
Let's do another problem.
All right.
So let's try this other exercise find a prime of X if X equals x squared plus x squared plus two to
the one hundredth power.
Interesting.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So let's go ahead and find the derivative for this function
so maybe you noticed that what we're doing here is we have two functions that are adding right.
We have x squared and then we have this other function which itself is a composition of more functions.
So we're adding X squared and x squared plus two to the one hundredth power.
And of course we use our some rule because we're adding two different functions.
And then remember for some rule that a monarch is a DD.
So you add the different derivatives.
Same thing if we were subtracting we would find the derivative of the first minus the derivative of
the second.
But because we're adding we find the derivative of the first plus the derivative of the second.
So let's get the derivative of x squared.
And again we bring down a dictator as a 2 x substitute by a less powerful leader gives us a 1 so we
don't market plus and.
Aha.
So how do we get the derivative of this one over here.
Of course you know it we're going to need to use the chain rule because we have one function x squared
plus two within another function.
So notice we started with some rule and while doing this some rule we had to sidetrack and do the change
rule come back with an answer and keep doing the some rule.
So let's go ahead and do it on the side so chain rule for x squared plus two to the 100.
All right so let's get this.
Remember ugly daily X-Box you the x so step one is you.
So we said you equal to the inner function which in this case is x squared plus two that said for step
1.
Step 2 Remember we find our derivatives and we multiply them.
So this is D-y Fras dx and then do you over here.
And do you over here.
All right so what is this what is y in terms of you.
So don't get confused now because this is the original Why.
However this is completely separate.
This part over here we're finding the derivative of x squared plus two to the one hundredth power.
All right so the Y refers to of course this function that we're using the chain rule on.
So in the other examples you was always equal to the original function because we only did the changeroom
in this case.
We have this function which doesn't need the chain rule and we have this other one that does.
So again this y refers only to the one that you're differentiating with the chain rule.
So how do we set why in terms of you.
So we know already that X squared plus two is equal to you.
That's what we did on step 1.
So we can just say you to the one hundredth power.
Right.
It's like saying X squared plus two to the 100.
But instead of x squared plus two we put you there because you is equal to the inner function.
And remember we need to get our derivative.
If you forget that then you're going to get the wrong answer.
And again just look at this derivative of Y Times derivative of you you're always multiplying two derivatives.
All right.
So this is derivative of y in terms of you we're going to multiply that times derivative of you in terms
of x.
So you is x squared plus two.
It's already in terms of x so it's X plus 2 and the derivative of that.
All right.
So remember that for first derivative derivative of you to the 100 we just treat the you as if it were
an X..
So we can apply our power rule.
So we're bring down a dictator has 100 you to the ninety nine.
Right.
Less powerful leader.
And we're going to multiply that by the derivative of this.
So here we have a sum we just get the derivative of the first one and we added to the derivative of
the second one derivative for the first one power rule.
So we bring our dictator down which is a 2 x and less powerful leader it becomes a 1.
So we don't market and plus the derivative of a constant which is zero.
So we don't mark that either.
All right.
So finally we have 100 times 2 x that is 200 x
times you to the ninety nine great.
Now we simplified things.
We go to our final and third step which is setting it back in terms of x.
All right.
So wherever you see in you you're going to substitute it not by the letter X. But by whatever you is
equal right here.
And step one.
So basically you're taking you and putting the inner function there instead of the letter you.
So we have 200 x so instead of you we're going to put it in terms of x.
So we do X squared plus two to the 99th power.
All right.
And this right here is the derivative of x squared plus two to the 100.
So now that we got this derivative we actually have to go back to the original problem and we need to
plug in or answer the derivative that we got here.
So derivative of x squared.
We already have it is 2 x plus derivative of this guy is the one we just got 200 x x squared plus two
to the ninety nine and at this point there's nothing really to simplify.
And this is our answer.
So I think you're seeing now how the change can complicate things because this was a simple addition.
So we just needed to get the derivative of the first plus the derivative of the second.
However this second required the chain rule because it's a function within another function.
So we just went ahead and apply the change rule here UTX and once we got the answer we put it here.
And so we got the derivative of this plus the derivative of this and that is our answer.
At this point we are done.